Computer Graphics and Art
Vol. 1 No. 4
November, 1976
Page 10-17

Author = W. G. Wolfgang
Language = (custom)
Transcribed by: Matt Epler (partial)

There are five basic weave types preprogrammed
in the language; basket weave - which includes the
plain weave of the textile desiqner as a special case,
warp rib weave, filling rib weave, extended block
weave - a generalization of the basket weave in which
the diagonal is formed of rectangles rather than the
usual squares, and twill weave - a generalization of
the twill concept of the textile designer which will
also generate the satins and certain granite weaves
as special cases.

Basket weave - BW(m1, m2, ..., mi) This will form a m1,
m2, ... , mi basket weave. That is a wleave which has a
diagonal pattern of square blocks of raisers which are
m1 by m1,...,mi by mi.

Rib Weave - WRn(m1, m2, ..., mi) This will form a conventional
m1, m2, ..., mi warp rib if 'n' is either 1 nor
left blank. Otherwise a corresponding warp rib in which 'n'
picks weave as one.

Filling Rib - FRn(m1, m2, ..., mi) This will form a
conventional filling rib if n is 1 or left blank,
otherwise it will form a corresponding filling rib
in which n ends weave as one.

Extended Block - EB(m1,n1,m2,n2, . . . ,mi,ni> The weave
is analogous to the basket weave except that the diagonal
is formed of rectangles m1 by n1..., mi by ni
rather than squares as in the basket.

Twill Weave - TW(m1,n1,m2,n2, . . . ,mi,ni,s,k) In order
that the array generated by this algorithm be a weave
the parameter, k , must satisfy certain requirements.

Let S = i ∑ j=1 (mj + nj), N = max (mj, nj), M = min(N, S-N)

then k must satisfy one of the following:
a. |k| and S must be relatively prime, or
b. |k| <= M, or
c. |S-k| <= M, or
d. gcd(|k|, S) <= M, where gcd means greatest common divisor.

If s>O then columns are operated on in the generation
of the array by the twill weave algorithm.
If s<O then rows are operated on. The array is generated
as follows. If |s| = 1 then the first column
(row) or the array consists of m1 successive 1's
followed by n1 successive 0's followed by m2 successive
1's followed by n2, successive O's etc, beginning at
the bottom (left) and proceeding upward (to the right).
The elements of all succeeding columns (rows) are
generated by the following rule. The j'th element
of the i'th column (row) is the L'th element of the
1'st colwnn (row) where j = L+(i-1)k)mod S. For
|s| ≠ 1 the first row (column) of the array generated
will be the |s|'th row (column) of the array generated
for |s| = 1. This algorithm generalizes the concept
of the twill weave of the textile designer as it includes
weaves which are not ordinarily considered as
twills . It also includes the conventional satins
when the form is TW(n,1,-1,k) for an n+1 harness, warp
face satin with a counter of k or TW(1,n,-1,k) for an
n+1 harness filling face satin with counter k provided
in both cases that k and n+1 are relatively prime.

The Weave Operators
Any weave can be modified or combined with any
other weave to form a new weave by the application of 
one or more of the following operators. In the
sequel W, W1 and W2 will represent any weave, that
is one of the basic weaves or a weave already generated
by the application of one or more of the weave
operators. Weaves are periodic both vertically and
horizontally, thus pi and ei will represent the height
and width, respectively, of a single period of the
corresponding weave, (i.e. the number of rows and the
number of columns in a single period of the weave).

Horizontal Concatination - HC(W2, W2) A weave which
consists of the weave W1 on the left with the weave
W2 placed to its immediate right. If the two weaves
do not repeat on the same number of rows then both
will be repeated vertically a sufficient number of
times to give arrays having a number of rows equal
to lcm(p, p ) , where lcm stands for the least common
multiple.

Vertical Concatination - VC(W1 ,W2) A weave which
consists of the weave W1 placed immediately above
the weave W2. If the two weaves do not repeat on
the same number ot columns then each will be repeated
horizontally a sufficiant number of times to give
arrays having a number of columns equal to lcm(e1, e2).

ANd - AN(W1 ,W2) An array which has 1's in those locations
where both W1 and W2 have 1's and O's elsewhere.

OR - OR(W1, W2) An array which has 1's in those locations
where either W1 or W2, has 1's and O's in all
other locations.

In both the AND and OR operators the weaves will
be repeated, if necessary, vertically and horizontally
to give arrays having lcm(p1, p2) rows and lcm(e1 ,e2)
columns. In general the AND and OR operators
will not give weaves when applied to arbitrary weaves,
however, a weave will always result when they are
applied to twills having the same value of K and for
which the values of s have the same sign. These operators
are most useful in the process or replacing
the raisers and/or sinkers of a given weave with another
weave or weaves.

COlate - CO(W1, W2 ) An array in which the elements at
the intersections of the odd numbered rows and odd
numbered columns are the elements of the weave W1 and
the elements at the intersection of the even numbered
rows and columns are the elements of W2. All other
elements are Q's. The weaves will be repeated, if
necessary, as in the AND and OR operators.

[ rest of code explanation to be translated ]